.hy 0
.TH ARBSLAB 1 "17 April 1991"
.ad

.SH NAME
arbslab - an enhanced version of slab 

.SH SYNOPSIS
cat 
.I datafile 
|
.B arbslab min max [-rotate] [-project]

.SH DESCRIPTION
arbslab is a simple filter for passing slices of data.  It allows one to use
a slider to change the size of the slab being looked at. In addition, the points
can be output with  2D coordinates (-project) or with 3D coordinates. Any z value
falling between min and max will be output.

.SH USAGE
To use arbslab, you simply pipe your data with triples (and perhaps extra
material) on lines through arbslab (with options), and the filter will remove the
items whose z coordinate is not within the correct range.  The slider can
be manipulated to change the slab size.  In addition the -rotate option can be used
to rotate the data points before taking the slab, when using -rotate the original
x,y values are output. The output is sent to stdout, 
so that it may be piped to other programs.  

.SH OPTIONS
min
: sets the range of the lower bound of the slab.
.LP
max 
: sets the range of the upper bound of the slab.
.LP
-project
: removes the z coordinate before output.
.LP
-rotate
: Adds three extra sliders for rotating the points in the x,y and z directions,
the z values of the rotated points are then compared against the valid slab
range.
.SH EXAMPLE
.sp 1
cat 
.I datafile 
| arbslab 0 10 |
.I plotting_package
.sp 1
will send data from the file
.I datafile
through arbslab to 
.I plotting_package
, where plotting_package is some program that you specify.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
3D-2D, sortit, rotate, slab, thin, translate, PlotAtoms
.SH BUGS
None
.SH AUTHOR
Jennifer Hodgdon
.sp1
Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
.sp1
arbslab was developed at Cornell University as part of the Cornell-IBM Joint
Study on Computing for Scientific Research





