.hy 0
.TH  AXIS 1 "8 September 1992"
.SH NAME
.PP
axis - draw a graph
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
axis [ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBAxis\fR with no options takes pairs of numbers from the standard input 
as abscissas and ordinates of a graph. Successive points are connected by 
straight lines. The graph is
encoded on the standard output for display by the plot(1)
filters (for example hpgl or tek10). These are accessed on
the MASSCOMP through the uplot(l) script.
If the coordinates of a point are followed by a nonnumeric
string, that string is printed as a label beginning on the
point. Labels may be surrounded with quotes "...", in which
case they may be empty or contain blanks and numbers; labels
never contain newlines.
.PP
Typical usage is
.PP
axis -lt "title" -lx "x-label" -ly "y-label" < data | uplot -T
.PP
(If \fBuplot\fP is not available, \fBpsplot\fP is an alternative
for converting to postscript output.)
.PP
This treats the first column of "data" as the x variable, the
second column as the y variable, and plots the data on a
Tektronix 4014 graphics terminal with lines connecting the
data points.  Other flags available with uplot may be learned
by typing the command "uplot -T?". Current supported devices
and their uplot-flags are as follows: 
.br
.in +1i
.nf
1. hpgl (-Thp), 
2. postscript (-Tls), 
3. imagewriter (-Tim) and 
4. masscomp graphics tube (-Tmg).
.fi
.in -1i
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized, each as a separate
argument.
.TP
\fB-a\fR Supply abscissas automatically (they are missing from
the input); spacing is given by the next argument
(default 1). A second optional argument is the
starting point for automatic abscissas (default 0 or lower
limit given by \fB\fB-x\fR\fR).
.TP
\fB-b\fR Break (disconnect) the graph after each label in the
input.
.TP
\fB-c\fR "..."
Character string given by next argument is default label for each point.
.TP
\fB-g\fR n
Next argument is grid style, 0 no grid, 1 frame with
ticks, 2 full grid (default).
.TP
\fB-l\fR "..."
Next argument is label for graph. (same as \fB-lt\fR)
.TP
\fB-m\fR n
Next argument is mode (style) of connecting lines: 0
disconnected, 1 connected (default). Some devices give
distinguishable line styles for other small integers.
.TP
\fB-s\fR Save screen, don't erase before plotting.
.TP
\fB-x [ l ]\fR [ xlo xhi xinc ]
If l is present, x axis is logarithmic. Next 1 (or 2)
arguments are lower (and upper) x limits. Third argu-
ment, if present, is grid spacing on x axis. Normally
these quantities are determined automatically.
.TP
\fB-y\fR [ l ] [ ylo yhi yinc ]
Similarly for y.
.TP
\fB-h\fR 0.n
Next argument is fraction of space for height.
.TP
\fB-w\fR 0.n
Similarly for width.
.TP
\fB-r\fR 0.n
Next argument is fraction of space to move right before
plotting.
.TP
\fB-u\fR 0.n
Similarly to move up before plotting.
.TP
\fB-t\fR Transpose horizontal and vertical axes. (Option \fB-x\fR now
applies to the vertical axis.)
.TP
\fB-e\fR Takes data supplied in the following form: x y delta y,
and marks the delta y error bars on the plot.
.TP
\fB-lt\fR "..."
The string in quotations following this flag will be the title.
.TP
\fB-lt2\fR "..."
This string specifies how the string \fB-lt\fR " " is to be 
manipulated. The string \fB-lt2\fR manipulates string \fB-lt\fR space 
by space. A blank will print the letter as it appears,
an upper case G will take an upper case letter and substitute
its greek letter substitute as specified in /usr/lib/greek/,
an upper case case H will substitute an upper case greek,
and an upper case C will mark the beginning or the end of
a subscript or a superscript as indicated below.
.PP
	0 = enter superscript
.br
	1 = end superscript
.br
	2 = enter subscript 
.br
	3 = end subscript
.PP
As an example, if I wished to have my title to be 
AB superscript alpha end superscript C, I would use
\fB-lt\fR "AB0A1C" \fB-lt2\fR " CGC " . The first two spaces
in \fBlt2\fR indicate that AB is to be printed as is, the C
indicates that the 0 signifies the beginning of the 
superscript, the G indicates that the A is meant to be 
alpha, the next C indicates that the 1 is the end of
the superscript, and the last blank indicates that the C
is to be printed as C. Trailing blanks are not needed.
.TP
\fB-ltx\fR 0.n
This locates the x location of the title in a fraction 
of the page.
.TP
\fB-lty\fR 0.n
This locates the y location of the title.
.TP
\fB-lts\fR n
This specifies the size of the title in inches(default = 2).
.TP
The structure of the x-label and the y-label options is the
same as the title.
.PP
\fB-lx\fR "x-label"		\fB-ly\fR "y-label"
.br
\fB-lx2\fR			\fB-ly2\fR
.br
\fB-lxx\fR			\fB-lyx\fR
.br
\fB-lxy\fR			\fB-lyy\fR
.br
\fB-lxs\fR "default=1.5" 	\fB-lys\fR
.TP
\fB-lcs\fR n.n
Character expansion factor. All character sizes are
multiplied by this. (default = 1.0)
.TP
If a specified lower limit exceeds the upper limit, the axis
is reversed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
spline(1), plot(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Graph stores all points internally and drops those for which
there isn't room.
.PP
Segments that run out of bounds are dropped, not windowed.
.PP
Logarithmic axes may not be reversed.
.PP
"Inches" are machine dependent and usually far smaller than true inches.
.SH AUTHOR
.sp1
John Richardson, Bob Pearson, Doug Toussaint, Dan Sullivan, Steve Langer
.sp 1
Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
