.hy 0
.TH DI 1 "24 July 1991"
.ad

.SH NAME
DI - a program for calculating determinants and/or inverses

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B DI
[ 
.I -options 
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
DI is a linear algebra program for calculating determinants,
inverses, or both. DI accepts matrices from standard input and
writes the determinants and inverses to standard output. DeterminantInverse
uses the double precision Linpack routines to perform its calculations.

.SH USAGE
To use DI you need a file containing matrices or you can also
type matrices into DI directly. DI will
continue to process matrices until it reads and EOF, end of file, character.
Each row of the matrix can be punctuated with newlines, braces, { },
or brackets, [ ] but the punctuation must be consistent throughout the matrix.
The beginning and ending punctuation of each matrix must be consistent with
that of its rows. The rows and matrices that end with a newline do not have
any beginning punctuation. DI can also read matrices in binary
form, which is much faster. For more information about the binary mode,
see the math_io documentation. DI accepts complex numbers in 
several formats: (a,b), a+bi, or a+bI, where 'a' is the real part and 'b'
is the imaginary part. 
.sp1
DI will also estimate the reciprocal condition of the matrix,
if it is called with the -condition option. DI will print the
reciprocal condition to standard output if no output file is specified with
the -file_condition option. For more information about the reciprocal
condition, see the 
.I
Linpack Users' Guide
by Dongarra et al.

.SH OPTIONS
-real : The matrix elements are real numbers; the default mode. 
.LP
-complex : The matrix elements are complex numbers. 
.LP
-general : Uses routines that work with all matrices, the default mode.
.LP
-symmetric : Uses routines optimized for symmetric matrices, real or complex.
.LP
-hermitian : Uses routines optimized for hermitian matrices, complex only.
.LP
-upper_triangular : Uses routines optimized for upper triangular matrices.
.LP
-lower_triangular : Uses routines optimized for lower triangular matrices.
.LP
-binary_in : Inputs the matrices in binary form.
.LP
-binary_out : Outputs the inverses in binary form.
.LP
-file_in 
.I file 
: Specifies the
.I file 
matrices are read from.
.LP
-file_out 
.I file 
: Specifies the 
the default output 
.I file.
.LP
-file_determinant 
.I file
: Specifies the 
.I file 
the determinants are written to.
.LP
-file_inverse 
.I file 
: Specifies the 
.I file 
the inverses are written to.
.LP
-file_condition 
.I file 
: Specifies the 
.I file 
the conditions are written to.
.LP
The output files can also be 'stderr' to output to standard error.
.LP
-condition : Estimates the reciprocal conditions of the matrices.
.LP
-determinant : Calculates the determinant.
.LP
-inverse : Calculates the inverse.
.LP
-timing : Prints timing information to standard error.
.LP
? , -? , -h , -help : Print help information to standard error.

.SH DEFAULTS
The default mode for DI is to read a real matrix from
standard input and write its determinant and inverse to standard output, in
that order.

.SH EXAMPLE
.sp 1
   DI -inverse -file_in data -hermitian -file_out results
.sp 1
will read hermitian matrices from the file data, and write their inverses to
the file results. (The -complex flag is unnecessary for hermitian matrices.) 

.SH "SEE ALSO"
MSolve, MMult

.SH BUGS
1 - DI -real -hermitian
will use complex hermitian matrices, not real matrices and produces no error
message.
.br
2 - Does not support the Mathematica arrow notation to denote an exponent.
.br
3 - Does not support the Fortran 'd' notation.


.SH AUTHOR
Eric Lochstet
.sp1
Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
.sp1
DI was developed at Cornell University as part of the
Cornell-IBM Joint Study on Computing for Scientific Research










