.hy 0
.TH FOURIER 1 "20 January 1993"
.ad

.SH NAME
Fourier - a program for calculating fast fourier transforms

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B Fourier 
[ 
.I -options 
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Fourier is a program for calculating fourier transforms or inverse fourier
transforms. Fourier accepts data from standard input and writes the results
to standard output. Fourier uses the double precision fftpack routines to
perform its calculations.  Fourier does not need any form of zero padding.

.SH USAGE
To use Fourier you need a file containing 1xN , Nx1 or Nx2 matrices, you can also
type data into Fourier directly. Fourier will continue to process data until
it reads and EOF, end of file, character. Each row of the matrix can be
punctuated with newlines, braces, { }, or brackets, [ ] but the punctuation
must be consistent throughout the matrix. The begining and ending punctuation
of each matrix must be consistent with that of its rows. The rows and matrices
that end with a newline do not have any begining punctuation. Fourier can also
read in binary form, which is much faster. The data read in binary form is
read as a vector of length N. For more information about the binary mode,
see the math_io documentation. Fourier accepts complex numbers in 
several formats: (a,b), a+bi, or a+bI, where 'a' is the real part and 'b'
is the imaginary part. If the data consists of only real numbers seperated by
a newline then either the real and the complex input modes can be used, but
the real mode is more accurate.

.SH OPTIONS
-complex_input : input is the form a+bi
.LP
-real_input : input values are real numbers
.LP
Only one of the following 7 output options can be used at a time.
.LP
-absolute_output : output the absolute value of the results
.LP
-complex_output : output both the real and imaginary parts of the results
.LP
-imaginary_output : output the imaginary part of the results
.LP
-packed_output : output the packed results from -real_input
.LP
-power_output : output the power spectrum, the absolute value squared
.LP
-real_output : output the real part of the results
.LP
-binary_output : Outputs the results in binary form.
.LP
-binary_in : Inputs the data in binary form.
.LP
-file_in 
.I file 
: Specifies the
.I file 
the data is read from.
.LP
-file_out 
.I file 
: Specifies 
the output 
.I file.
.LP
The output files can also be 'stderr' to output to standard error.
.LP
-normalize : normalize the results by dividing them by the square root of N.
This is the default mode.
.LP
-unnormalize : do not normalize the results
.LP
-nozero : do not output the data at the zero k point. The default is to 
output all the points.
.LP 
The following flags have no effect when used with the -binary_output or the
-packed_out flags.
.LP
-center : center the output around the 0 wave vector. The default is to start
at the zero wave vector and end at the 2 PI wave vector.
.LP
-fft : calculate the fft and not the inverse fft. This is the default mode.
.LP
-inverse : calculate the inverse fft.
.LP
-ordinate_in : Along with the function points the first column represents
the position. The input is then a Nx2 matrix. 
.LP 
-ordinate_out : print out the wave vector before each result data point. 
For all uncentered real outputs, the mth wave vector is (2*PI*m)/L, where
L is total length of the input data points given by N(x1 -x0) if 
-ordinate_in is specified, N is the number of data points and x0 and x1 are
the first two positions. If -ordinate_in is not specified then L is just the
number of data points read. Real centered output has the latter half of
the transform output first, with k = (2*PI*m)/L - PI*(N-1)/L. Complex
output (presumed input into other programs) uncentered has the wave
vectors negative for the latter half of the output: we presume you aren't
plotting the output, and this format is more natural for other applications.
.LP
? , -? , -h , -help : Print help infomation to standard error.

.SH DEFAULTS
The default mode for Fourier is to read complex data from standard input
and write its results to standard output.

.SH EXAMPLE
.sp 1
   Fourier -file_in data -file_out results
.sp 1
will read complex Nx1 or 1xN matrices from the file data, and write thier
fourier transforms to the file results.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
MSolve, MMult, fftpack documentation

.SH BUGS
1. Normalization has errors when two transforms are done with the output of one
used as input to the next.

.SH AUTHOR
Jim Frankenberger
.sp1
Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
.sp1
Fourier was developed at Cornell University as part of the
Cornell-IBM Joint Study on Computing for Scientific Research










