.hy 0
.TH HISTOGRAM 1 "6 January 1993"
.SH NAME
histogram \- make a histogram
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B histogram
[ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Histogram
reads a list of numbers from the standard input and produces 
on the standard output a file
suitable for input to 
.I axis
or
.I graph.
or
.I xmgr
The following options are recognized,
each as a separate argument.
.TP
.B  \-s
Next argument is the \fBs\fPize for each bin. (default = 1/10 of range of data)
.TP
.B  \-n
Next argument is the \fBn\fPumber of bins. (default = 10 )
.TP
.B  \-x
Next 2 arguments are range for \fBx\fP axis. (default = range of data)
.TP
.B  \-log
Sorts data into logarihmic bins.
.TP
.B  \-sep
Recognize a blank line as the start of a new set of data that is
to be processed. The default is to ingore blank lines and make one
histogram for all of the data.
.TP
.B  \-N norm
Normalizes counts (norm = 0: scale counts by number of values,
norm = 1: scale counts by to data*binsize, norm=2: leave counts alone(de
fault)
.TP
.B  \-g 
Turns on bar graphics (this is the default)
.TP
.B  \-ng 
Turns off bar graphics, printing (bin,count) pairs.
.TP
.B  \-pos
Outputs only bins with positive bin counts.
.TP
.B  \-h 
Display a summary of the command line options.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
graph(1), axis(local), xplot(1), xmgr
.SH BUGS
Simultaneously specifying -s, -n and -x is usually inconsistent, and
may produce strange results.

.SH AUTHORS
Jim Frankenberger, based on code originally written by Chris Myers
.sp1
Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
.sp1
histogram was developed at Cornell University as part of the Cornell-IBM Joint
Study on Computing for Scientific Research
