.hy 0
.TH INTER 1 "9 April 1991"
.ad

.SH NAME
.nf
inter  \-  interactive front end for axis
.fi

.SH SYNOPSIS
inter [\-x] [\-X commandfile] [datafile ...] | axis |
.I filter
.sp1
or
.sp1
inter [\-x] [\-X commandfile] [datafile ...] | newaxis |
.I filter
.sp1
or
.sp1
inter0 | axis |
.I filter
.sp1
where
.I filter
is a plot5 filter, such as
.B psun, tek,
or
.B laser.

.SH DESCRIPTION
inter frees the user from the constrained input file format required
by axis, and replaces axis's cryptic commands with real words. The user
types commands, or inter reads them from commandfile, if the \-X option
is used. If you don't want to remember or learn the appropriate
commands, inter0 asks questions instead of waiting for instructions.
.sp1
An initial set of commands will be read from the file .interrc, if
the file exists in either the current directory or the user's home 
directory. The \-x and \-X options suppress this feature.
.sp1
Any number of data files can be listed after the options. The first
data file is read _before_ any command file is executed.

.SH DATA FILE FORMAT
One of the reasons for inter's existence is that it allows more
flexible data file formats than axis does. Data files consist of one or
more columns of numbers. All columns must have the same length. Any
lines in the file beginning with a letter are ignored. Any one of the
columns can be the x data, although the default is to assume that column
1 is x. (See the command "option xcolumn" below.) Unlike most plotting
programs, inter understands fortran's D notation for double precision
numbers.

.SH COMMAND SYNTAX
Commands consist of words in a command file, or typed in response to a
prompt. The legal commands are taken from one of various 'menus'. The
current menu is indicated by the prompt. The standard prompt is "inter >>".
Each word you type either calls a function which actually does
something useful, or calls up a submenu, which expects another
command. Typing "?" at any stage will print a list of legal commands.
Typing "help <command>" will print a short message about the specified
command. Commands may be shortened to any unambiguous abbreviation.
.sp1
Once the parser calls a function that actually does something, that
function may require arguments. Arguments may be separated from the
command with an =, but don't have to be. Multiple arguments may be
separated by commas. Integer arguments separated by a minus sign will be
expanded to all integers in the given range. If you don't want to
specify the arguments on the command line, you don't have to. Most
functions will ask for any arguments they need. (See the detailed list
of commands for the exceptions.) Some examples:
   plot 2    \- Plot column 2 of the data file.
   plot = 2  \- The same thing.
   plot 2,4  \- Plot columns 2 and 4.
   plot 2\-5  \- Plot columns 2, 3, 4, and 5.
   plot *    \- Plot all columns (except for x, of course).
   plot      \- Let inter ask you which column to plot.
A number shown in square brackets at the end of a request for input
is a default value. Just hit return to accept the default.
.P
A semicolon (;) or carriage return indicates the end of the argument list.
You can put multiple commands on one line, but it is a good idea to
separate them with semicolons so that the second command is not mistaken
for an argument of the first.
.P
A percent sign (%) indicates a comment. Everything from the percent sign
to the end of the line will be ignored.
.P
Sometimes you will want to execute a lot of commands from a particular
submenu. Submenu commands may be grouped, using parentheses. For
example,
   histogram (bins 200; plot 2)
executes two commands from the histogram menu. It is identical to
   histogram bins 200
   histogram plot 2.
Typing "option (" enters the options submenu, and stays there until a
closing ")" is typed.
.P
All submenus include a command "nothing", which does nothing except return
control to the calling menu. This is useful if you make a mistake.
.P
.SH COMMANDS
.P
  Commands are listing as they would be typed at the "inter >>" prompt.
Items in angle brackets "<>" are arguments to be supplied.
.P
Fundamentals:
.P
.nf
file <datafile>  Read the specified datafile. Nothing is plotted at this time.
plot <column> ... Plot the specified column(s) of the data file, using
                  the current line style. The x coordinates are assumed to be
                  in column 1, unless "option xcolumn" has been invoked.
next_file        Read the next file specified on the command line, if
                 inter was invoked with "inter file1 file2 ... | axis".
done             Exit inter, and display the plot.
quit             The same as "done".
.P
line solid       Plot subsequent curves with solid lines (the default).
line dotted      Plot subsequent curves with dotted lines.
line dashed      Plot subsequent curves with dashed lines.
line dotdashed   Plot subsequent curves with dot\-dashed lines.
line none        Plot subsequent curves with no lines, just points.
line style <arg> Plot subsequent curves in line style <arg>. Type
                 "help line style" to get a list of styles.
To mark points with characters, see "label datapoints" below.
.P
limit x <xmin> <xmax>  Set both x limits of the plot.
limit y <ymin> <ymax>  Set both y limits of the plot.
limit xmin <xmin>      Set only the lower x limit.
limit xmax <xmax>      Set only the upper x limit.
limit ymin <ymin>  ....
limit ymax <ymax>  ....
.P
logaxes x       Make the x axis logarithmic.
logaxes y       Make the y axis logarithmic.
logaxes xy      Make both axes logarithmic.
.P
Labeling the plot:
.P
label xaxis <label>  Label the x axis with <label>. The rest of the input
                     line is taken to be the label, so no other commands
                     can appear on the line.
label yaxis <label>  Label the y axis with <label>, with the same warning.
label title <label>  Label the top of the graph with <label>.
label arbitrary_point <x> <y> <label>  Write <label> at the point <x> <y>.
label curve <col> <n> <label> Label the <n>th point in the curve in column
                              <col> with <label>. A "$" instead of <n>
                              indicates the last point in the curve.
label datapoints on <label>  Label points of subsequently plotted curves
                             with <label>. Lines will not be drawn while
                             points are being labeled. To get both lines and
                             labels, you must plot the curve twice.
label datapoints off         Stop labeling points.
label datapoints list        List the special characters available for labels.
.P
label position xaxis <x> <y> Set position of the x axis label, in units where
                             the default width of the graph is 1, and the
                             lower left corner is the origin. The default
                             position is (.5, \-.1).
label position yaxis <x> <y> Set position of the y axis label. The default
                             position is (\-.15, .5).
label position title <x> <y> Set position of the title. The default is (.5, .9).
.P
label size x <size>          Set size of the x label to <size>. The default is
                             1.5, in some unknown units.
label size y <size>          Set size of the y label to <size>. default = 1.5
label size title <size>      Set size of the title to <size>. default = 2.0
label size points <size>     Set size of labels drawn with "label datapoints"
                             "label arbitrary_point", and "label curve". These
                             sizes must be set before the points are drawn.
                             The default size is 1.5.
.P
Interpretation of data:
.P
option automatic             Don't read x coordinates from the file, just
                             use successive integers. This command toggles
                             between normal and automatic modes.
option errorbars             Plot errorbars on each point. The size of the
                             bars is taken from the next column of data. This
                             command is also a toggle.
option transpose             Plot x vs. y, instead of y vs. x.
option xcolumn <col>         Read x data from column <col>. The default is 1.
option space_lines <n>       Plot only every nth line of data.
option skip_lines <n>        Skip the first <n> lines of data.
.P
Appearance of the plot:
.P
option grid frame            Draw axes on all four sides of the plot (default).
option grid none             Don't draw any axes.
option grid arrow            Draw axes on the bottom and left sides only.
option grid full             Draw a full grid.
option grid box              Draw axes with no tick marks. This is available
                             only with newaxis.
option tick x                Set the x tick mark spacing. You must call
                             "limit x" or this won't take effect.
option tick y                Set the y tick mark spacing. Same warning.
option tick style x full     Draw both major and minor tick marks on the x axis.
option tick style x semi     Draw only major tick marks on the x axis.
option tick style x none     Draw no tick marks on the x axis.
   The "option tick style y" commands are identical. All of the "option tick
   style" commands are available only in newaxis.
option nonumber x            Don't put numbers on the x axis.
option nonumber y            Don't put numbers on the y axis.
   "option nonumber" is available only in newaxis.
option clip                  Toggle between clipping (keeping curves within
                             bounds) and not clipping. This may not work well,
                             or at all, and must be used with newaxis.
option width <width>         Set the width of the plot. The default is 1.
option height <height>       Set the height of the plot. The default is 1.
move up <dist>               Move the plot up the page by the specified amount.
                             The units are the same as for labels.
move right <dist>            Move the plot to the right.
.P
Modifying the data:
.P
option addcurves <col1> <col2> Add the values in column 1 to those in column 2.
option adjustdata <col> ...    Scale and shift the data in the given column(s).
option shift <shift>           Set the shift to be used in "option adjustdata".
option shift_increment <inc>   Set the shift to be used in "option adjustdata".
                               Each column adjusted will be shifted <inc>
                               more than the previous column.
option scale <scale>           Set the scale to be used in "option adjustdata".
option logdata <col> ...       Take the logarithm (base 10) of the data in
                               the specified column(s).
option sine <col> ...          Take the sine of the data in the column(s).
option cosine <col> ...        Take the cosine of the data in the column(s).
option moddata <col> ...       Take the modulus of column(s) <arg>.
option modulus <m> ...         Set the modulus to be used in "option moddata".
                               The default value is 1.
.P
More ways to plot:
.P
returnplot <col> ...           Plot y[n+1] vs. y[n] for each column specified.
option fitline <col>           Fit a line to the data in the specified column.
                               If error bars are turned on, the fit is weighted.
                               The fitted line is plotted.
hiddenplot <cols>              Make a hidden line plot of the given columns.
                               Line segments will be hidden behind segments
                               plotted earlier on this call to hiddenplot.
                               Use this with "option shift_increment" and
                               "option adjust" to make pseudo 3d plots.
histogram plot <col>           Make a histogram of the data in column <col>.
histogram bins <n>             Use <n> bins for the histogram.
histogram max <max>            Set the upper limit on the histogram x axis.
histogram min <min>            Set the lower limit on the histogram x axis.
   The histogram  will consist of <n> bins between <min> and <max>. If
   these numbers are not specified, <n> will be assumed to be 100, and
   inter will ask for <min> and <max>. The default values for <min> and <max>
   are determined by the extent of the data.
histogram normalize <area>     The area under the histogram will be <area>.
                               If <area = 0> the y axis will give the number
                               of counts in each bin.
histogram log                  Plot the log of the height of each bin (toggle).
histogram weight <col>         Weight each point by the number in the specified
                               column.
.P
Miscellaneous:
.P
option include_file <file>   Copy the given file directly to the output.
                             The file should contain axis commands.
option ignore                Usually, axis commands in the data file are
                             ignored. This command causes them to be sent
                             along to axis. They are sent when they are read,
                             before the data is plotted, so be careful.
                             This is a toggle switch.
option noclear               Don't clear the page before plotting. This
                             allows you to put more than one plot on a page.
                             Instead of sending the output of axis to a filter,
                             send it to a file. When you have done this for
                             all the plots, cat all the files to the filter at
                             once.
reset                        Reset all internal inter flags and start over.
                             Curves already plotted cannot be recalled, though.
.P
save file <file>             Save all commands typed in the given file.
                             If <file> is omitted, commands are saved at
                             the end of the previously named file, if there
                             was one.
save off                     Stop saving commands.
run_file <file>              Read and execute commands from file <file>. This
                             file could have been written with "save file".
                             Omitted arguments to commands in the file are
                             read from the keyboard, not the file.
if <question>                Print <question>, and if the user answers "y",
                             execute the following line. Otherwise, discard
                             the following line. This is useful in conjunction
                             with "run_file".
.P
system cd <dir>              Change directory to <dir>.
system back                  Change back to the previous directory.
system pwd                   Print the current directory name.
system ls                    List the contents of the current directory.
system ! <sh command>        Interpret the rest of the line as a Unix command,
                             and execute it.
.P
.SH BUGS
1 - Clipping may not work.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
      Steve Langer
.sp1
Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
.sp1

