.hy 0
.TH ITEMS l "22 January 1991"
.ad
.SH NAME
items - an interactive data entry program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
items num_items [-labels text] [-help] [-initial strings]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Items is an interactive data entry device which puts up a number of boxes
for numerical or text input.
.LP
Items will function on any X11R4 or X11R3 Window server.  It must, however,
be compiled and run on a system which has the Motif widget sets.  When you
start up items, it takes the first argument on its command line to be the
number of sliders to be displayed.  It then scans the rest of the command
line for labels.
.SH USAGE
To use items, first run the program.  Then set the output value
by typing text in the input windows.  Then, click the
"send" button.  This will output the values to stdout.
.sp1
.SH OPTIONS
-labels sets text labels for the items.
.LP
.sp1
-help displays a short message describing the use of items.
.sp1
-initial sets the initial values for the items
.sp1
NOTE:  -labels, and -initial must take the same number of 
arguments as there are sliders.
.SH DEFAULTS
If num_items is not specified, items assumes num_items is 1.
If no -initial, or -labels,
slider defaults to: 1 item, initial value of 0, and no labels.
.SH EXAMPLE
.sp 1
    items 3 -labels theta phi r
.sp 1
will put up three text boxes in a window, with initial values of 0.
Then, it will label these three sliders "theta," "phi," and "r," respectively.
.SH FILES
items  -  the items binary
.SH BUGS
1. Doesn't allow text as initial values.
2. Clumsy adaptation of much more sophisticated program.
.SH AUTHOR
Jeff Osterman wrote "slider"; James Sethna removed the sliders.
.sp1
Items was developed at Cornell University as part of the Cornell-IBM Joint
Study on Computing for Scientific Research

