.hy
.TH MATRIX2X 1 "23 September 1992"
.SH NAME
matrix2X - make a density plot of a matrix in an X window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B matrix2X
[ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Matrix2X
reads a set of matrices from the standard input and produces a density plot
in an X window.  The matrices are in the FAUCET form - rows of numbers
separated by newlines and matrices separated by blank lines (double newlines).
The plot consists of a series of rectangles mimicking the shape of the input
matrix which are colored according to the list of colors specified in the
following manner.  The values in the matrix are put into as many evenly
spaced bins as there are colors specified. The color of each rectangle
corresponds to the bin number of the value at that matrix location.
So, for example, the rectangles corresponding to the smallest group of values
(those in the first bin) are colored by the first color specified on the
command line and the rectangles corresponding to the highest group of values
are colored by the last color specified. 

The following options are recognized,
each as a separate argument.
.TP
.B  \-c
Sets a single color via a  color name.  Ex. "-c red"
.TP
.B  \-rgb
Sets a single color via the next 3 integers which are red, green, and blue levels.  Ex. "-rgb 65535 0 0".
.TP
.B  \-sc
Next argument is either a color name or a color in hex and sets a seed color.
Colors from black to this color are added to the palette.  The number is
determined by the next -scc option.
.TP
.B  \-srgb
Sets a seed color via the next three integers.
.TP
.B \-scmin
Sets the minimum for a color range via the following color name.  Should be
followed by -scmax or -srgbmax and -scc.
.TP
.B \-scmax
Sets the maximum for a color range via a color name or hex.
.TP
.B \-srgbmin
Sets the minimum for a color range via the next three integers.  Should be
followed by -scmax or -srgbmax and -scc.
.TP
.B \-srgbmax
Sets the maximum for a color range via the next three integers.
.TP
.B \-palette
Sets a palette of colors via a list of hex numbers.  Ex. "-palette #000000
#FF0000 #FFFFFF" for black, red, and white.
.TP
.B \-scc
Sets the number of colors in the previous range.  Ex. "-scc 5".
.TP
.B \-srgbc
Identical to "-scc".
.TP
.B \-noclear
Turns off the window clearing between matrices.
.TP
.B \-noclick
Turns of waiting for a mouse click between matrices.
.TP
.B \-b
Inputs matrix in binary mode for speed.
.TP
.B \-replicate
Does not do interpolation when fitting a matrix to a window. This will leave
black edges if the matrix size is not a multiple of the window size. The 
default is to interpolate by taking the density of the previous cell in order
to fill any size window with any size matrix.
.TP
.B \-h, -help, -?, and ?
Gives the help message.


.SH "USAGE TIPS"
Astounding effects can be obtained by using a complicated palette.  Such
palettes may be built up by using a series of color options (which has the
effect of simply appending the new colors to the palette).  Another way
is to engineer a palette and use the -palette option.  In a matrix
representing a finely sampled continuous function the contours corresponding
to contour values where the color changes abruptly will be visible.

Hardcopy of graphics can generally be obtained by using
.I xwd
and 
.I xpr
in conjunction
with
.I lpr.
For example, to print on a postscript print one might use the line
"xwd | xpr -device ps -gray 2 | lpr"
For some printers the proper technique may by using
.I xwd
in conjunction with a filter which converts xwd format into an appropriate
format for the local printer.  Consult local documentation for details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
xwd(1), xpr(1), lpr(1)

.SH BUGS
1 - Does not support the Mathematica arrow notation to denote an exponent.
.br
2 - Does not support the Fortran 'd' notation.
.br
3 - Resizing while reading from a pipe takes two views of the matrix before
the matrix is the correct size.

.SH AUTHOR

.sp1
Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
.sp1
matrix2X was developed at Cornell University as part of the Cornell-IBM Joint
Study on Computing for Scientific Research

