.hy 0
.TH PLOTATOMS 1 "9 April 1991"
.ad

.SH NAME
PlotAtoms - a graphical plotting program

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B PlotAtoms 
< 
.I datafile

.SH DESCRIPTION
PlotAtoms is an X-Windows plotting package which accepts x-y pairs from
standard input and plots these pairs in the form of spheres or 
ellipsoids.  It can also 
produce multiple pictures in the form of a movie.
.LP
PlotAtoms will function on any X11R4 or X11R3 Window server. 

.SH USAGE
To use PlotAtoms, you need a data file with x-y pairs on separate lines.  
Each frame of the "movie" should be separated by a blank line.  Multiple atom
types can be specified by adding a third number after the x-y pair to 
specify which atom number the coordinate corresponds to.  Type 
.B 'q' 
in the
graphics window to exit the program.
.sp1
Included with PlotAtoms are various filters which allow pseudo-3D-graphics.
These will be listed in the "SEE ALSO" section below.  
See the individual man pages for each one for
further information.

.SH OPTIONS
-natoms 
.I number 
: specifies the 
.I number 
of atom types to use
.LP
-help : print brief help information
.LP
-version : print version information
.LP
-entire : plot entire movie without erasing between frames
.LP
-shade : Use shading for the atom images
.LP
-noshade : Don't use shading for the atom images
.LP
-scale : Scale the x and y directions separately (default is 
         to use identical scale factors for both x and y)
.LP
-xmin 
.I number 
: Set absolute x-coordinate minimum to 
.I number 
.LP
-xmax 
.I number 
: Set absolute x-coordinate maximum to 
.I number 
.LP
-ymin 
.I number 
: Set absolute y-coordinate minimum to 
.I number 
.LP
-ymax 
.I number 
: Set absolute y-coordinate maximum to 
.I number 
.LP
-geometry 
.IR width x height + 
.IR xpos + ypos
: Set window geometry
.LP
-foreground 
.I color 
: Set foreground color
.LP
-background 
.I color 
: Set background color
.LP
-radius 
.I number 
: Set default atom radius to 
.I number
.LP
-color 
.I color 
: Set default atom color to 
.I color
.LP 
-rN 
.I radius 
: Set radius of atom N to 
.I radius
.LP
-cN 
.I color 
: Set color of atom N to 
.I color
.LP
-angN 
.I angle 
: Set orientation angle (in degrees) of atom N to 
.I angle
.LP
-arN 
.I ratio 
: Set aspect ratio of atom N to 
.I ratio
.LP
-border 
.I number 
: Set border width as a fraction of window 
.RS
size 
(0<
.I number
<1/2) 
.RE
.sp1
.sp1

.SH DEFAULTS
There are hard-coded defaults that PlotAtoms uses if no options are specified
on the command line.  These reflect my opinion of a reasonable setup.
These hard coded defaults can be overwritten in two ways: command line
arguments or an options file.  The command line arguments take precedence
over the options file.  The command line arguments are listed in the 
previous section. The defaults file should be called
.B plotatoms.db . 
The syntax for lines in the options file is the same as the syntax 
used by X clients, 
.I e.g.
the 
.B .Xdefaults 
file.  
For example, if you want atom number 3 to be green, you should add 
a line to 
.B plotatoms.db
that reads:
.sp1
	PlotAtoms*atom3.color:green
.sp1
The ordering of the lines in the options file is not important.
The following is a summary of the standard lines that can go 
into the options file with sample options 
(for explanations, see the options above):
.sp1
.nf
	PlotAtoms*entire:False
	PlotAtoms*scale:False
	PlotAtoms*shade:True
	PlotAtoms*natoms:1
	PlotAtoms*radius:16
	PlotAtoms*color:white
	PlotAtoms*geometry:600x600+400+5
	PlotAtoms*xmin:-10
	PlotAtoms*xmax:10
	PlotAtoms*ymin:-10
	PlotAtoms*ymax:10
.fi 
.I		use 
.B nil
.I on the last four if you want PlotAtoms
.I want PlotAtoms 			to figure out min's 
.I and max's.
.nf
	PlotAtoms*border:.25
	PlotAtoms*foreground:white
	PlotAtoms*background:black
	PlotAtoms*atom1.radius:16
	PlotAtoms*atom1.color:red
	PlotAtoms*atom1.aspect: 1.3
	PlotAtoms*atom1.angle: 30
	PlotAtoms*atom2.radius:30
	PlotAtoms*atom2.color:yellow
.fi
.sp1
PlotAtoms looks in the directory from which it is called for the 
options file.  If it doesn't find that, it looks in the directory
specified by the environment variable
.B TOOLDIR
for an options file.

.SH EVENTS
PlotAtoms handles two events that take place when the mouse cursor is
in the drawing window.  If a 
.B 'q' 
is typed, PlotAtoms will exit.  If any mouse button is clicked, the program
will freeze frame.  The next mouse click will unfreeze the movie.  Note that
there might be  some delay due to the way X handles graphics requests. 

.SH EXAMPLE
.sp 1
   PlotAtoms -natoms 2 -radius1 12 -radius2 14 -color1 red -color2 pink < data
.sp 1
will read in x-y pairs from the file data, using the third number of each
line to specify the atom type.  Atom type 1 will be drawn in red, and atom 2
in pink.  Note that if there is no third number, PlotAtoms will use the
default atom for those coordinates.

.SH FILES
binary executable:	PlotAtoms 	
.nf
source code: 		main.c		image.c
				set_up.c		parser.c
				help.c		whitespace.c
				plotatoms.h	macros.h
				parse.h

options file:		plotatoms.db

sample data files:	melange		mel2
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
sortit, 3D-2D, rotate, Euler, thin, translate, slab, plotatoms.db

.SH BUGS
.nf
Resize the window while the program is running at your own risk.
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
Bruce W. Roberts
.sp1
Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
.sp1
PlotAtoms was developed at Cornell University as part of the Cornell-IBM Joint
Study on Computing for Scientific Research










