.hy 0
.TH POLY2PS 1 "14 May 1991"
.ad

.SH NAME
poly2ps - convert input for polydraw program to postscript (See "polydraw")


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B poly2ps
< 
.I datafile
>
.I file.ps

.SH DESCRIPTION
Poly2ps is filter to produce a postscript file which draws and shades polygons.
It is designed to read the same input file (ASCII format only) that polydraw
reads.  The default is to convert the specified RGB colors to grayscales.
This conversion is hard to make general and is thus presently quite
stupid.  It will probably need modification unless your color scheme is quite
simple (e.g., you draw only red, green, and blue polygons).  Alternatively, 
color postscript output can be created by using the -color option.

.SH USAGE
To use poly2ps, you need a data file with multiple x-y pairs on each line followed
by a color specifications which begins with an arbitrary string and is followed
by three integers representing the red, green and blue components of the color.  
For example a line in the file might read-

0.5 0.5 -0.5 0.5 -0.5 -0.5 0.5 -0.5 rgb 65535 0 0

This line produces a completely red square.  Note that the format is the same
as that used for polydraw.  The options list has also been made as compatible
with polydraw as is possible.  (If you include options, such as
-buffer, which are supported only by polydraw, you will get a warning message
telling you that the option is not supported by poly2ps and has been ignored.)

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-tr trx try
translates postscript origin to (trx,try) in inches
.TP
.B \-g gmin gmax
sets range of grayscales from gmin to gmax (default = 0.2->0.9 (dark->light))
.TP
.B  \-x xmin xmax
sets the range of x values from xmin to xmax (default = -1. to 1.)
.TP
.B  \-y ymin ymax
sets the range of y values from ymin to ymax (default = -1. to 1.)
.TP
.B  \-xmin xmin 
alternate way to set xmin (compatible with polydraw)
.TP
.B  \-xmax xmax 
alternate way to set xmax (compatible with polydraw)
.TP
.B  \-ymin ymin 
alternate way to set ymin (compatible with polydraw)
.TP
.B  \-ymax ymax 
alternate way to set ymax (compatible with polydraw)
.TP
.B \-size size
scales largest axis to size inches (default = 7.0)
.TP
.B \-framewidth framewidth
sets width of frame around each polygon, a number > 0 (default = 1)
.TP
.B  \-color
shades sites with the specified colors, rather than converting to grayscales
.TP
.B  \-noframe
omits the black frame around each polygon
.TP
.B  \-nofill
does not fill polygons
.TP
.B  \-lines
treats input as lines, not polygons
.TP
.B  \-joel
produce more compact postscript for a special case (Joel's tiling model)
.TP
.B \-h, -help
gives the help message.

.SH EXAMPLES
poly2ps -xmin -500 -xmax 500 -ymin -500 -ymax 500 <still_12 >still_12.ps

poly2ps -x -500 500 -y -500 500 -color -size 4 <still_12 | gs
   
cat still_12 | poly2ps -x -500 500 -y -500 500 -noframe | lpr

.SH FILES
binary executable:	poly2ps 	
.nf
source code:	poly2ps.c

sample data file:	still_12
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
polydraw, matrix2ps

.SH BUGS
.nf
1. The biggest bug is the conversion of rgb colors to grayscales.  
   The way chosen here is 
   about the most naive possible and will only be successful in a 
   few situations.
2. Sometimes, due to the lack of resolution of the printer, some of 
   the polygon frames will be omitted in printing.  This can be 
   corrected by setting framewidth to a larger value.

.SH AUTHOR
Joel Shore (with pieces plagiarized from Stephen Townsend and Chris Myers)
.sp1
Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
.sp1
Poly2ps was developed at Cornell University as part of the Cornell-IBM Joint
Study on Computing for Scientific Research
