.hy 0
.TH PRE_GR 1 "December 23 1992"
.ad

.SH NAME
pre_gr - A preprocessor for inserting xmgr (or other) commands into data streams

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B cat data | pre_gr [config-file] [-help] | xmgr -pipe


.SH DESCRIPTION
The pre_gr command reads data from standard input and inserts commands from
the config-file at the beginning of the data, every time a blank line is
seen and at the end of the data. The primary use for pre_gr is to get 
raw data, for example X,Y values into a format where the data can be 
displayed as frames in the graphing program xmgr.

The config-file is divided into groups of xmgr commands, where each group is
seperated by a blank line. The 'first' group of commands is written out 
preceding any data, the 'last' group of commands is written out following the 
data. Between the first and last groups there can be any number of 'middle' 
groups,
every time a blank line is seen in the input stream the next group of commands
is written out in place of the blank line. If the number of blank lines in
the input stream is more then the number of 'middle' groups then the last
middle group is repeated for every blank line seen in the input stream.

.SH OPTIONS

.B config-file
: The file that holds the xmgr commands to output.

.B -help
: Gives information about the program.

.SH DEFAULTS
The following sequence is placed before the data:
  @with g0
  @redraw

Each blank line is replaced by the following:
  &
  @with g0
  @autoscale
  @redraw
  @sleep 2
  @kill s0
  @with s0

The following is output following the data:
  &
  @redraw

The above defaults will produce a slide show type demo of the input data.
Every time a blank line appears in the input data the current graph will
be displayed for two seconds then cleared and the next graph displayed.
  
   
.SH EXAMPLE
The following config-file and input data will produce a sequence of 3 graphs
where the first is drawn, displayed for 3 seconds and the other 2 are overlayed
so the end result is 3 lines where you see each drawn seperatly. The end 
result is displyed for 5 seconds and then quits.
 config-file:         data-file:
  @with g0           1 1
  @redraw            2 2
                     3 3
  &                  4 4
  @with g0      
  @autoscale         .5 1
  @redraw           .5 2
  @sleep 3  
                     3 2.5
  &                 3.5 3.7
  @with g0          
  @redraw
  @sleep 5
  @exit           

The grpahs can be drawn using the following command:
   cat data-file | pre_gr config-file | xmgr -pipe

The -pipe option must be used with xmgr because this allows the control 
sequences to be inserted correctly.
  
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xmgr, especially appendix A which lists the xmgr commands that can be used.

.SH BUGS
1 - When running xmgr v2.09 under Motif, updating the display does not
work correctly when using the @sleep command. Be sure that a version of
xmgr greater then 2.09 is being used. Version 2.09 has been 
modified locally to correct this. 

.SH AUTHOR
Jim Frankenberger
.sp1
Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
.sp1
pre_gr was developed at Cornell University as part of the 
Cornell-IBM Joint Study on Computing for Scientific Research

