.hy 0
.TH ROTATE l "14 April 1992"
.ad
.SH NAME
rotate -- an interactive input routine for rotation matrices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
rotate [-update] [-initial alpha beta gamma]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
Rotate is an interactive data entry device which puts up a rotation
ball with axes, and allows the user to pick a rotation matrix.
.SH USAGE
To use rotate, first run the program.  Then drag the axes around.  Moving
inside the circle acts as if you were rolling the ball (geodesic motion),
moving outside rotates about the center.
.sp1
In the continuous update mode (-update), the matrices will be output
as fast as the system can respond.  In the discrete update mode (default)
the matrices are sent only when the button is released.
.sp1
The 'Reset' button draws the axes in their initial positions.
.SH OPTIONS
-update gives output only whenever the mouse is moved with the button down.
.LP
-initial sets the initial rotation matrix using alpha beta and gamma as the 
the euler angles in radians. 
.LP 
rotate also recognizes all standard Xtoolkit options.
.SH DEFAULTS
The default mode updates discretely.
.SH RESOURCES
The following resources can be set in the .Xdefaults file:
.sp1
.nf
	rotate.xColor: red
	rotate.yColor: forest green
	rotate.zColor: blue
	rotate.circleColor: black
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
.sp 1
    rotate | RotateFile | sortit | 3D-2D | PlotAtoms 
.sp 1
will pipe rotation matrices to RotateFile, which can then rotate a data
file and pipe to further plotting programs.
.SH FILES
rotate -- the rotate binary
.SH BUGS
1. rotate should have a -binary option
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
Maynard Handley
.sp1
revised by Eric Lochstet
.sp1
Reset added by Jim Frankenberger
.sp1Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
.sp1
Rotate was developed at Cornell University as part of the Cornell-IBM Joint
Study on Computing for Scientific Research

