.hy 0
.TH SLAB 1 "17 April 1991"
.ad

.SH NAME
slab - a simple data filter

.SH SYNOPSIS

cat 
.I datafile 
|
.B slab -min 
.I num1 num2 
.B -max 
.I num3 num4 

.SH DESCRIPTION
slab is a simple filter for passing slices of data.  It allows one to use
a slider to change the size of the slab being looked at.  

.SH USAGE
To use slab, you simply pipe your data with triples (and perhaps extra
material) on lines through slab (with options), and the filter will remove the
items whose z coordinate is not within the correct range.  The slider can
be manipulated to change the slab size.  The output is sent to stdout, 
so that it may be piped to other programs.  

.SH OPTIONS
-min
.I num1 num2
: sets the range of the lower bound of the slab to be between 
.I num1 
and 
.I num2
.LP
-max 
.I num1 num2
: sets the range of the upper bound of the slab to be between 
.I num1
and 
.I num2
.LP
Note that both of these options are required.

.SH EXAMPLE
.sp 1
cat 
.I datafile 
| slab -min 0 10 -max 15 20 |
.I plotting_package
.sp 1
will send data from the file
.I datafile
through slab to 
.I plotting_package
, where plotting_package is some program that you specify.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
3D-2D, sortit, rotate, Euler, thin, translate, PlotAtoms

.SH BUGS
1. slab should probably allow you to choose which coordinate
(x, y, or z) to use for the slab.

.SH AUTHOR
Bruce Roberts
.sp1
Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
.sp1
slab was developed at Cornell University as part of the Cornell-IBM Joint
Study on Computing for Scientific Research





