.TH lattice2ps local
.SH NAME
lattice2ps - convert a field living on a 2-D square lattice to a postscript
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lattice2ps
[ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lattice2ps
is a filter to produce a postscript file which shades elements on a
two-dimensional square lattice based on their value. The default  produces
gray-scale
shading from black to white based on the range of values input, although a
restricted range can be specified, or color postscript output can be
generated via the -color option.

The size of the lattice must be specified with the -nx and -ny options.
The lattice can be input either as a site at a time or in the LASSPTools
matrix format.  See "man DynamicLattice" or "DynamicLattice -h"
for further information on formats.

The following options are recognized,
each as a separate argument.
.TP
.B  \-nx ncols
specifies the number of sites in the x direction (columns)
.TP
.B  \-ny nrows
specifies the number of sites in the y direction (rows)
.TP
.B  \-bg graylevel
specifies a background shade of gray 
.TP
.B \-grid graylevel
draws a grid (mesh) of specified graylevel between sites
.TP
.B \-tr trx try
translates postscript origin to (trx,try) in inches
.TP
.B \-size size
scales largest axis to size inches (default = 4)
.TP
.B \-g gmin gmax
sets range of grayscales from gmin to gmax (default = 0.->1. (black->white))
.TP
.B \-matrix
sets input mode to LASSPTools matrix format
.TP
.B  \-z zmin zmax
sets the range a z values from zmin to zmax (default: full range of data)
.TP
.B  \-color
shades sites with colors according to colormap (default blue->red, override
in .colormaprc)
.TP
.B  \-r
rotates image on page by 90 degrees (still buggy)
.TP
.B \-h, -help
Gives the help message.


.SH "USAGE"
Typical usage is of the form:

lattice2ps < input > output.ps

or

lattice2ps < input | lpr

.SH "COMMENTS"

-nx and -ny must be specified

-g gmin gmax need not proceed from dark to light (i.e., gmin > gmax is
acceptable).  This is often useful if a few sites are to be shaded
with the majority left white; in such a case, -g 1. 0. would leave
white all those sites which were equal to the minimum value

-color writes out color postscript, which as such needs a color postscript
printer to print.  If color postscript is sent to a black/white
(grayscale) printer, the printer will attempt to interpolate the
colors as graylevels, but usually not successfully.  If one has
access to a color printer that works in a format other than
postscript, and one has an onscreen postscript previewer (such as
Ghostscript) which can be window-dumped to the color printer, then
one can preview the postscript file and dump the previewer window
to the color printer to get color hardcopy.  DynamicLattice produces
color X-windows plots of the lattice information, with compatible formats.

graylevels are written out assuming an 8 bit-plane screen, that is,
assuming 2^8 = 255 different levels.  Most postscript printers cannot
resolve that many levels; the Apple Laserwriter, for example,
appears to be capable of printing 32 distinct graylevels.

.SH BUGS

The author, Chris Myers, encourages users to report bugs.  
He can be reached via email (through 8/1/93) at myers@sbitp.ucsb.edu 
or (after 8/1/93) at myers@tc.cornell.edu.
Suggestions for added features and/or protocols
are also encouraged. Known bugs include:

(1) Colormap override format incompatible with that of DynamicLattice.

(2) Gray scale images of sufficiently large size (approx 200x200) 
may not print.  This may be a problem with the Postscript Image operator.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
DynamicLattice(), matrix2X()

