.TH XPLOT 1 "13 October 1988" 
.SH NAME
xplot - plot(5) filter for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xplot
[-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...] [-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xplot 
program brings up a window for viewing plot(5) output, for example
from the
.I axis
program.
The program works interactively, continuing to
accept input from stdin and plotting as it goes, until it reaches
an end of file, at which point it waits around for a mouse button
press to kill the window.
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xplot
accepts all of the standard X toolkit command line options, and the initial
geometry specification determines the resolution, with a default
geometry of 500x500 pixels.
.PP
The following standard X Toolkit command line arguments may be used with 
.I xplot:
.TP 8
.B \-bg \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the color to use for the background of the window.  
The default is \fIwhite\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-bd \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the color to use for the border of the window.
The default is \fIblack\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-bw \fInumber\fP
This option specifies the width in pixels of the border surrounding the window.
.TP 8
.B \-fg \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the color to use for displaying text.  The default is 
\fIblack\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-fn \fIfont\fP
This option specifies the font to be used for displaying normal text.  The
default is \fI6x10\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-rv
This option indicates that reverse video should be simulated by swapping
the foreground and background colors.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fP
This option specifies the preferred size and position of the plot window.
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIhost\fP:\fIdisplay\fP
This option specifies the X server to contact.
.TP 8
.B \-xrm \fIresourcestring\fP
This option specifies a resource string to be used.
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program uses the 
.I Label
widget in the X Toolkit.  It understands all of the core resource names.
.TP 8
.B reverseVideo (\fPclass\fB ReverseVideo)
Specifies that the foreground and background colors should be reversed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), plot(5), psun(1), axis(1), Athena Label widget
.SH BUGS
Several things
ought to be changed, for example the reversed byte order in
plot(5) format.
.SH AUTHORS
Arthur Smith 
.sp1
Send bug reports to toolkeeper@msc.cornell.edu
.sp1
